So NoSQL versus SQL, what's the difference,
how do these database systems and concepts differ and why are we using mongodb here?
So what's the difference?
We got NoSQL and SQL databases, for NoSQL
examples would be mongodb which we will use in this course but also couchdb for example
and for SQL, we would have MySQ,  Microsoft SQL,
these are just some examples,
there are more solutions of course. Now NoSQL databases enforce no data schema,
so in one collection you can have records with different structures.
They might have a common trunk but then may be one entry has an additional field which another entry
does not have for example. One advantage of that is for example if your application changes and
now you want to store the old information but additional fields, you can do that in the same table or
collection as it's called here
as before and some older records will simply not have the new fields
whilst your new record
will have it. Now in SQL databases, you typically have a more strict data schema and all records
in a table have to have the same look and the same schema. A NoSQL database also is less focused on
relations,
you can still create relations by storing the ID of one document as it's actually called, of one document
in another document
but they play less of a role than they do in SQL.
In SQL, it's all about having these normalized data tables where one table stores the users, the
next table stores the orders,
that's not bad and that's actually also something you can build with NoSQL but NoSQL puts less
of a focus on that.
We also have independent documents whereas the SQL records tend to be more related and that really is
just a summary of that data schema and relations thing I already mentioned.
So documents simply are more on their own,
they can be related but they don't have to, they can follow a certain schema but they don't have
to. And NoSQL is therefore great for data where the structure might vary, where you have a lot of
throughput because it's very fast to query because you have less relations where you need to do complex
queries, instead you typically query for one collection, just a bunch of documents without creating
all these queries and these joins, there are no such joins in NoSQL.
So therefore it's great for things like logs, orders, chat messages,
SQL on the other hand tends to be great for shopping carts, contacts and in general complex social
networks, these kinds of things.
Now one thing that's really important though, there is no hard restriction for either of that,
so you can absolutely build a social network with NoSQL databases and the other way around.
Additionally in bigger apps you often have multiple database systems getting used,
so you might have a NoSQL database for one type of data your app generates and a SQL database
for a different part,
so you can mix and match them. In this course
I use mongodb simply because that mean stack turns out to work together really well, it's fun to query
NoSQL data with javascript and with angular therefore because it happens to be stored in a structure
that looks and feels like json, that's very easy to work with.
Additionally a lot of mean stack apps are apps where you might end up with a lot of read actions, so often a
NoSQL database is a great solution there
but overall you could swap it for an app of the size we build it in this course, it will not matter
that much to be honest
but since mean overall is a thing and a skill or a set of skills which is in high demand, we will use
mongodb
and the way you connect it to node and therefore also to angular is of course something that
doesn't change that much when you use a SQL solution.